Late editing pass - follow-up to #9 (#11)
FiloSottile/draft-irtf-cfrg-ristretto255: draft-irtf-cfrg-ristretto255-decaf448.md

Edwards curves provide a number of implementation benefits for
cryptography, such as complete addition formulas with no exceptional
points and formulas among the fastest known for curve operations. However,

> the group of points on the curve is not of prime order and has a cofactor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the group of points on the curve is not of prime order, i.e., it has a cofactor larger than 1.
```

While Ristretto is a general method, and can be used in conjunction
with any Edwards curve with cofactor 4 or 8, this document specifies

> the ristretto255 group, which MAY be implemented using Curve25519,
> and the decaf448 group, which MAY be implemented using edwards448.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the ristretto255 group, which can be implemented using Curve25519,
and the decaf448 group, which can be implemented using edwards448.
```

Normative MAY doesn't feel right here. This is talking about an implementation strategy and not an implementation allowance, so just saying that Curve25519 or edwards448 can be used seems better.

Author: Agreed, much better.

encoding, equality, a one-way map, addition, negation, and the
derived subtraction and (multi-)scalar multiplication.

Decoding is a function from byte strings to abstract elements with
built-in validation, so that only the canonical encodings of valid
elements are accepted. The built-in validation avoids the need for
explicit invalid curve checks.

Encoding is a function from abstract elements to byte strings so that all
equivalent representations of the same element are encoded as identical
byte strings. Decoding the output of the encoding function always
succeeds and returns an equivalent element to the encoding input.

The equality check reports whether two representations of an abstract
element are equivalent.

The one-way map is a function from uniformly distributed byte strings
of a fixed length to uniformly distributed abstract elements. This map
is suitable for hash-to-group operations and to select random elements.

> The map is not intended to be invertible, but its one-way nature alone
> should not be relied on for security, as it's possible to find valid
> inputs for a given output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The map is injective, meaning that it maps each input to a distinct 
output, though not pre-image resistant, meaning one can find a valid
input for a given output. As such, this function MUST NOT be used in
settings that require pre-image resistance.
```

It seems better to just use the technical term 🤷

Author: Agreed on "not pre-image resistant", but injective loses the focus on the primary implication, which is that there is no map from point to uniform string. (It technically does mean that, but the average implementer might not know.) The MUST NOT can't stand unqualified, because we do expect it to be used in settings that require pre-image resistance when paired with a hash function.

```suggestion
The map is not invertible, but also not pre-image resistant,
meaning an attacker can find a valid input for a given output.
```

2. Compute P2 as `MAP(b[32:64])`.
3. Return P1 + P2.

The MAP function is defined on a 32-byte string as:

1. First, interpret the string as an integer r in little-endian
   representation. Reduce r modulo 2^255, then further reduce it
   modulo p, to obtain a field element t.
   * Note: similarly to [@RFC7748] field element decoding, the most

>      significant bit of the representation of r is masked.

Reviewer 2: Here, do we mean to leave open the option of doing some kind of reduction mod 2^255 other than masking the MSB? The previous language made it seem that the intended operation is masking, but this revision leaves you to infer it.

Author: Addressed in d11463d6a74ebe9c8d752fb5bc37a210aaf97d32.

## Scalar field

The scalars for the decaf448 group are integers modulo the order l
of the decaf448 group. Note that this is the same scalar field as
edwards448, allowing existing implementations to be reused.

Scalars are encoded as 56-byte strings in little-endian order.
Implementations **SHOULD** check that any scalar s falls in the range
0 <= s < l when parsing them and reject non-canonical scalar
encodings. Implementations **SHOULD** reduce scalars modulo l when
encoding them as byte strings. Omitting these strict range checks is
**NOT RECOMMENDED** but is allowed to enable reuse of scalar
arithmetic implementations in existing edwards448 libraries.

Given a uniformly distributed 64-byte string b, implementations can

> obtain a scalar by interpreting the 64-byte string as a 512-bit

Reviewer: Hmm, does this claim actually hold? The [analysis in hash-to-curve](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve-14#section-5.1) would suggest that you'd need at least 72 bytes to reduce bias to 2^-128. This seems to reduce bias to 2^-64.

Author: `hash_to_field` suffers from being general, in that it tries to apply for any `p`. The bias depends heavily on how far `p` (or, here, `l`) is from a power of two. Here we know the exact value, so we can analyze the bias precisely.

See https://github.com/cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-ristretto255/pull/9#issuecomment-985779317 for Mike's analysis, and note how 512 is actually overkill, although convenient in that it's consistent with r255.

Reviewer: Ah, cool, thanks for educating me!
